docs/README.md, before:

# LazyMVN Documentation

This directory contains detailed documentation for LazyMVN features, implementations, and design decisions.

## Architecture & Design

- **[IMPLEMENTATION_SUMMARY.md](IMPLEMENTATION_SUMMARY.md)** - Overall implementation summary
- **[REFACTORING.md](REFACTORING.md)** - Refactoring guidelines and history

## Features Documentation

### Core Features
- **[TABS_IMPLEMENTATION.md](TABS_IMPLEMENTATION.md)** - Multi-tab support implementation
- **[TABS_PHASE2_MIGRATION.md](TABS_PHASE2_MIGRATION.md)** - Tab migration guide
- **[TABS_PROGRESS.md](TABS_PROGRESS.md)** - Tab feature development progress
- **[TABS_PROPOSAL.md](TABS_PROPOSAL.md)** - Original tab feature proposal

### Maven & Build
- **[QUICKSTART_LAUNCH_STRATEGY.md](QUICKSTART_LAUNCH_STRATEGY.md)** - Launch strategy for Spring Boot apps
- **[SPRING_BOOT_LAUNCHER.md](SPRING_BOOT_LAUNCHER.md)** - Spring Boot integration details
- **[WAR_MODULE_SUPPORT.md](WAR_MODULE_SUPPORT.md)** - WAR module handling

### Configuration & Profiles
- **[PROFILE_ACTIVATION.md](PROFILE_ACTIVATION.md)** - Maven profile activation
- **[LOGGING_CONFIG.md](LOGGING_CONFIG.md)** - Logging configuration system
- **[LIVE_CONFIG_RELOAD.md](LIVE_CONFIG_RELOAD.md)** - Live configuration reloading
- **[LIVE_RELOAD_IMPLEMENTATION.md](LIVE_RELOAD_IMPLEMENTATION.md)** - Implementation details

### Process Management
- **[PROCESS_CLEANUP.md](PROCESS_CLEANUP.md)** - Process cleanup mechanisms
- **[PROCESS_CLEANUP_SUMMARY.md](PROCESS_CLEANUP_SUMMARY.md)** - Summary of cleanup features

### Utilities
- **[DEBUG_YANK.md](DEBUG_YANK.md)** - Debug information yank feature (Shift+Y)
- **[YANK_LOGS.md](YANK_LOGS.md)** - Log yanking functionality
- **[YANK_LOGS_SUMMARY.md](YANK_LOGS_SUMMARY.md)** - Summary of yank features

### Bug Fixes
- **[FIX_SHARED_STARTER.md](FIX_SHARED_STARTER.md)** - Fix for shared Spring Boot starter cache

## Contributing

For contribution guidelines, see [../CONTRIBUTING.md](../CONTRIBUTING.md).

For development guidelines and AI agent instructions, see [../AGENTS.md](../AGENTS.md).

Commit message:

docs: add FIX_PROFILE_LOADING_NEW_TAB to docs index

docs/README.md, after:

# LazyMVN Documentation

This directory contains detailed documentation for LazyMVN features, implementations, and design decisions.

## Architecture & Design

- **[IMPLEMENTATION_SUMMARY.md](IMPLEMENTATION_SUMMARY.md)** - Overall implementation summary
- **[REFACTORING.md](REFACTORING.md)** - Refactoring guidelines and history

## Features Documentation

### Core Features
- **[TABS_IMPLEMENTATION.md](TABS_IMPLEMENTATION.md)** - Multi-tab support implementation
- **[TABS_PHASE2_MIGRATION.md](TABS_PHASE2_MIGRATION.md)** - Tab migration guide
- **[TABS_PROGRESS.md](TABS_PROGRESS.md)** - Tab feature development progress
- **[TABS_PROPOSAL.md](TABS_PROPOSAL.md)** - Original tab feature proposal

### Maven & Build
- **[QUICKSTART_LAUNCH_STRATEGY.md](QUICKSTART_LAUNCH_STRATEGY.md)** - Launch strategy for Spring Boot apps
- **[SPRING_BOOT_LAUNCHER.md](SPRING_BOOT_LAUNCHER.md)** - Spring Boot integration details
- **[WAR_MODULE_SUPPORT.md](WAR_MODULE_SUPPORT.md)** - WAR module handling

### Configuration & Profiles
- **[PROFILE_ACTIVATION.md](PROFILE_ACTIVATION.md)** - Maven profile activation
- **[LOGGING_CONFIG.md](LOGGING_CONFIG.md)** - Logging configuration system
- **[LIVE_CONFIG_RELOAD.md](LIVE_CONFIG_RELOAD.md)** - Live configuration reloading
- **[LIVE_RELOAD_IMPLEMENTATION.md](LIVE_RELOAD_IMPLEMENTATION.md)** - Implementation details

### Process Management
- **[PROCESS_CLEANUP.md](PROCESS_CLEANUP.md)** - Process cleanup mechanisms
- **[PROCESS_CLEANUP_SUMMARY.md](PROCESS_CLEANUP_SUMMARY.md)** - Summary of cleanup features

### Utilities
- **[DEBUG_YANK.md](DEBUG_YANK.md)** - Debug information yank feature (Shift+Y)
- **[YANK_LOGS.md](YANK_LOGS.md)** - Log yanking functionality
- **[YANK_LOGS_SUMMARY.md](YANK_LOGS_SUMMARY.md)** - Summary of yank features

### Bug Fixes
- **[FIX_SHARED_STARTER.md](FIX_SHARED_STARTER.md)** - Fix for shared Spring Boot starter cache
- **[FIX_PROFILE_LOADING_NEW_TAB.md](FIX_PROFILE_LOADING_NEW_TAB.md)** - Fix for profile loading in new tabs

## Contributing

For contribution guidelines, see [../CONTRIBUTING.md](../CONTRIBUTING.md).

For development guidelines and AI agent instructions, see [../AGENTS.md](../AGENTS.md).
